The superior colliculus (SC) is a structure in the midbrain that is part of the brain circuit for the transformation of sensory input into movement output. 
Its major function is orienting the animal, particularly with eye movements, to objects of interest in the outside world. 

Sensory input describes the response in a sensory organ when it receives stimuli. 
Sensory input is the stimuli that is perceived by our senses like smell, sight, touch, taste, and hearing. 
Anything that you perceive using your senses can be called sensory input.

A circuit typically refers to a set of interconnected components that together subserve a specific function. 
A neural circuit in the brain may be a cluster of neurons that receives electrochemical information that the circuit 
modifies and transmits to other circuits for further modification.

The midbrain is the topmost part of the brainstem, the connection central between the brain and the spinal cord. 
There are three main parts of the midbrain - the colliculi, the tegmentum, and the cerebral peduncles.

Your brainstem is the bottom, stalklike portion of your brain. It connects your brain to your spinal cord. 
Your brainstem sends messages to the rest of your body to regulate balance, breathing, heart rate and more.
Sudden injuries, and brain or heart conditions may affect how your brainstem works.

Stimuli is a detectable change in the internal or external environment. 
That which influences or causes a temporary increase of physiological activity or response in the whole organism or in any of its parts.

The definition of physiological is the normal functions of a living thing. 
An example of physiological is a person shedding skin.

A thing or event that evokes a specific functional reaction in an organ or tissue.
"areas of the brain which respond to auditory stimuli"

/*

SC orintation to visual stimuli. Explore role of 3 cell types in prey capture in mice 
to find circuits in SC causing orientation and approach behaviour toward stimuli.
 Distinct aspects of prey capture of WF and NF neurons by Chemogenetic inactivation.
WF neurons: for rapid prey detection ,distant approach initiation, 
NF neurons: for continuous/accurate orienting during pursuit.
Prey capture: no use of parvalbumin-expressing (PV) neurons(implicated in fear responses)

The visual coding of WF and NF cells in theawake mouse and their projection targets 
were consistent with their roles in prey detectionversus pursuit. 
Thus, our studies link specific neural circuit connectivity and function with stimulus 
detection and orienting behavior, providing insight into visuomotor and 
attentional mechanisms mediated by superior colliculus.

Highlights

●first demonstration of the role of specific cell populations
 in the superior colliculus in orienting and approach behavior.
●A genetically targeted population of wide-field vertical neurons in the superior 
colliculusis required for rapid prey detection and initiation of long-distance 
approaches.
●A genetically targeted population of narrow-field vertical neurons is required 
for approach initiation, accurate targeting, and approach continuity.
●Visual response properties and projection targets of these cells are 
consistent with their role in prey capture, linking neural circuit connectivity 
and function with behavior.


SC laminated struct having superficial SC recieving visual inputs
 , intermediate/deeper layers recieve multimodal sensory input provide motor output.


*/

MO:anatomy, physiology Denoting those neural structures that, by the impulses 
generated and transmitted by them, cause muscle fibers or pigment 
cells to contract, or glands to secrete.

The superior colliculus (SC) plays a highly conserved role in visual processing,
and mediatesvisual orienting behaviors across species. 
This includes both overt motor orienting and orienting of attention 
Q: Given this prominent role subserving vision for action, an important goal is 
to determine how specific circuits and cell types within SC 
transform stimuli into orienting behavior ? 

